You attempt to bind a Celestial, an Elemental, a
Fey, or a Fiend to your service. The creature must
be within range for the entire casting of the spell.
(Typically, the creature is first summoned into the
center of the inverted version of the Magic Circle
spell to trap it while this spell is cast.) At the completion of the casting, the target must succeed on
a Charisma saving throw or be bound to serve you
for the duration. If the creature was summoned or
created by another spell, that spell’s duration is extended to match the duration of this spell.
A bound creature must follow your commands
to the best of its ability. You might command the
creature to accompany you on an adventure, to
guard a location, or to deliver a message. If the
creature is Hostile, it strives to twist your commands to achieve its own objectives. If the creature
carries out your commands completely before the
spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact if you
are on the same plane of existence. If you are on a
different plane, it returns to the place where you
bound it and remains there until the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration
increases with a spell slot of level 6 (10 days), 7 (30
days), 8 (180 days), and 9 (366 days).

Plane Shift

Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a forked, metal rod worth 250+
GP and attuned to a plane of existence)
Duration: Instantaneous

You and up to eight willing creatures who link
hands in a circle are transported to a different plane
of existence. You can specify a target destination in
general terms, such as a specific city on the Elemental Plane of Fire or palace on the second level of the
Nine Hells, and you appear in or near that destination, as determined by the GM.
Alternatively, if you know the sigil sequence of a
teleportation circle on another plane of existence,
this spell can take you to that circle. If the teleportation circle is too small to hold all the creatures you
transported, they appear in the closest unoccupied
spaces next to the circle.

Plant Growth

Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action (Overgrowth) or
8 hours (Enrichment)
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

153

System Reference Document 5.2.1

This spell channels vitality into plants. The casting
time you use determines whether the spell has the
Overgrowth or the Enrichment effect below.
Overgrowth. Choose a point within range. All
normal plants in a 100-foot-radius Sphere centered
on that point become thick and overgrown. A creature moving through that area must spend 4 feet of
movement for every 1 foot it moves. You can exclude
one or more areas of any size within the spell’s area
from being affected.
Enrichment. All plants in a half-mile radius centered on a point within range become enriched for
365 days. The plants yield twice the normal amount
of food when harvested. They can benefit from only
one Plant Growth per year.

Poison Spray

Necromancy Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You spray toxic mist at a creature within range.
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a
hit, the target takes 1d12 Poison damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d12
when you reach levels 5 (2d12), 11 (3d12), and 17
(4d12).

Polymorph

Level 4 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a caterpillar cocoon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You attempt to transform a creature that you can
see within range into a Beast. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or shape-shift into
a Beast form for the duration. That form can be any
Beast you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal
to or less than the target’s (or the target’s level if
it doesn’t have a Challenge Rating). The target’s
game statistics are replaced by the stat block of the
chosen Beast, but the target retains its alignment,
personality, creature type, Hit Points, and Hit Point
Dice. See the “Animals” section of “Monsters” for a
sample of Beast stat blocks.
The target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Hit Points of the Beast form.
These Temporary Hit Points vanish if any remain
when the spell ends. The spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary Hit Points left.
The target is limited in the actions it can perform
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can’t speak or
cast spells.

